# Synthetic Network Traffic Generation using CTGAN

This repository contains a series of Jupyter notebooks demonstrating the use of Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (CTGAN) to generate synthetic network traffic data. The project aims to facilitate the development and testing of network management and security systems by providing realistic traffic data without exposing sensitive information.

## Repository Structure

- `Input_data_processing.ipynb`: This notebook includes preprocessing steps for the network traffic data that will be used to train the CTGAN model. It covers data cleaning, normalization, and feature engineering to prepare the input data for optimal performance.

- `GAN_Synthetic_Dataset.ipynb`: This notebook contains the implementation of the CTGAN model. It includes setting up the model architecture, training the model with the processed data, and generating synthetic network traffic data.

- `plot.ipynb`: This notebook is used for visualizing the synthetic data generated by the CTGAN. It provides various plots and statistics to compare the synthetic data against the real data to evaluate the quality and realism of the generated data.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

To run these notebooks, you will need Python 3.9 with the following packages installed, this is available in `requirements.txt`:
- tensorflow==2.10.1
- keras==2.10.0
- pandas==2.2.2
- numpy==1.26.4
- scikit-learn==1.4.2
- scipy==1.13.0
- netron==7.6.4
- matplotlib==3.8.4
- ip2geolocation

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>

2. Install the required Python packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt

### Dataset
The dataset used in this is from Kaggle - https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ashtcoder/network-data-schema-in-the-netflow-v9-format?resource=download

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have improvements or bug fixes, please fork the repository and submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact
For any queries, you can reach out to Abijith Ramachandran (trabijith@gmail.com).

Acknowledgements
Thanks to Dr. Eric Keller for the guidance and support to implement this research project
